# cse5525_final_project

## Description

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

1. Python 3.12+
```bash
python --version  # Windows
python3 --version  # Linux
```

### Installation
1. Clone the repository and navigate to the project root

```bash
git clone https://github.com/SBroaddus220/cse5525_final_project
cd cse5525_final_project
```

2. Create virtal environment of your choice (optional)
Example with Python's built-in `venv`
```bash
python -m venv .venv
./.venv/Scripts/activate  # Activate on Windows
source ./.venv/bin/activate  # Activate on Linux
```

3. Install project dependencies
```bash
python -m pip install -r ./requirements.txt
```

### Adding Files
The logic for finding files is defined in `./main.py`. 
UIDs are used to reference files in the Metric classes and so each file must have a UID that is capable of being generated with just the file path as input.
Currently, the application is tied to the [DiffusionDB](https://poloclub.github.io/diffusiondb/), so UIDs and file paths are based on its structure.
If additional databases are desired, new logic to relate the file paths & UIDs is necessary and generation must be changed in `main.py`.

#### `DiffusionDB` Data Download
The Poloclub downloader script is provided in the `./scripts/` directory. 
An example use case is provided below:
```bash
python ./scripts/download.py -i 23 --output "./data/images"
```
This will place the downloaded zip file in the correct location. Please extract it at the same location, and then the application should automatically recognize the data.

### Running the Application
To run the application, run:
```bash
python ./main.py
```   

### Running Scripts
There are several scripts in the `./scripts/` directory. These can be run as any python script.
Please refer to the docstrings of any script for any specific instructions.
```bash
# Example format
python ./scripts/script.py
```

## Browsing the Database
To browse the SQLITE3 database, a recommended pre-built solution is [DB Browser for SQLITE](https://sqlitebrowser.org/).

## Configuration File
Modifying the configuration file is unneeded, but if you want some customization (e.g. modifying logging config), then feel free to edit the config file at `./cse5525_final_project/config.py`

## Creating New Metrics
In this application, metrics for the files are systematically generated by using modular logic in an abstract class. New metrics can easily be added by providing logic for the SQLITE table and the metric calculation. 

The system's metrics can be found at `./cse5525_final_project/metrics.py` for reference.

A template for automatic generation of a Metric class through an LLM is provided at `./llm_metric_generation_template.md`.
To use this template, please replace the existing comments with specific details regarding the metric, and then insert the generated class into the metrics file.

## Authors and Acknowledgement
Steven Broaddus (https://stevenbroaddus.com/#contact)
Tommy Tong (https://github.com/puhthetic)

## Contributing
Due to this being a course project, no contributions are allowed probably.
